UNIT I
1. Python Program to Print Hello world!
2. Python Program to Add Two Numbers
3. Python Program to Find the Square Root
4. Python Program to Calculate the Area of a Triangle
5. Python Program to Solve Quadratic Equation
6. Python Program to Swap Two Variables
7. Python Program to Generate a Random Number
8. Python Program to Convert Kilometres to Miles (1 mile = 1.67 km)
9. Python Program to Convert Celsius To Fahrenheit
F=9*C/5+32
10. Python program to convert height (in feet and inches) to centimetres.
(1 feet= 12 inches, 1 inch=2.54 cm)
(cms=feet*12*2.54+inches*2.54)
11. Python program to calculate the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle.
(h=(b*b +h*h)**0.5)
12. Python program to convert all units of time into seconds.
(s=hrs*3600+mins*60)
13. Python program to convert seconds into day, hour, minutes, and seconds.
14. Python program to calculate midpoints of a line-segment.
15. Python program to display your details like name, age, address in three different
lines.
16. Python program to compute the distance between the points (x1, y1) and (x2, y2).
UNIT II
17. WAP to find the absolute value of the given number.
18. WAP to Check if a Number is Odd or Even.
19. WAP to find greater between two numbers.
20. WAP to check whether a number is divisible by another number.
21. WAP to find the largest among three numbers.
22. WAP to find the smallest among three numbers.
23. WAP to check whether a number is zero, negative or positive.
24. WAP to check whether a given year is leap year or not.
25. WAP to compute the roots of the quadratic equation.
26. WAP to enter a character and then determine whether it is vowel or consonants.
27. WAP that accepts the marks of 5 subjects and finds the percentage marks obtained by
the student. It also prints grades according to the following criteria:
Between 90-100%-----------Print 'A'
80-90%------------------------Print 'B'
60-80%------------------------Print 'C'
50-60%------------------------Print 'D'
40-50%------------------------Print 'E'
Below 40%-------------------Print 'F’
28. WAP to simulate the calculator (Arithmetic operations: +, -, /, *).
29. WAP to display the first N natural numbers.
30. WAP to sum the first N natural numbers.
31. WAP to compute the factorial of the given number.
32. WAP to display the table of the given number.
33. WAP to compute the sum of the digits of the given number.
34. WAP to reverse the given number. Also check whether the given number is in
palindrome or not.
35. WAP to count the number of digits of the given number.
36. WAP to check whether the given number is an Armstrong number or not.
37. WAP to display the following series.
 13
, -23
, 33
, - 43
, ……., (-1)n+1 n3
38. WAP to display the Fibonacci series up to n
th term.
39. WAP to compute the sum of following series up to the nth term.
 1 + 𝑥
ଵ/1! + 𝑥
ଶ/2! +𝑥
ଷ/3! + …….
40. WAP to compute the sum Fibonacci series up to nth term.
41. WAP to check whether the given number is prime number or not.
42. WAP to display all the prime numbers from 1 to n.
43. WAP to display all the Armstrong number from 1 to n.
44. WAP to compute the HCF of two numbers.
45. WAP to compute the LCM of two numbers.
46. WAP to display the following pattern.
A
A B
A B C
A B C D
A B C D E
47. WAP to display the Floyd’s triangle.
1
2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15
UNIT III
48. WAP to implement the user defined function to add two numbers.
49. WAP to check whether the two numbers are equal or not.
50. WAP to find the largest of three numbers using user defined function.
51. WAP to check whether the given year is a leap year or not using user defined
function.
52. WAP to swap the values of two variable that are defined as global variables.
53. WAP to compute the factorial of the given number using user defined function.
54. WAP to compute the P (n, r) using user defined function.
55. WAP to compute the C (n, r) using the user defined function.
56. WAP to compute the HCF and LCM of two numbers using user defined function.
57. WAP compute the sum of the series using user defined function.
58. WAP to display the pattern using user defined function.
59. WAP to display the Fibonacci series using user defined function.
60. WAP to compute the sum of Fibonacci series up to nth term using user defined
function.
61. WAP to compute the sum of the digits using user defined function.
62. WAP to compute the exponential of number w.r.t. another number.
63. WAP to check whether the given number is a prime number or not using user defined
function.
64. WAP to compute the sum of the first n natural number using recursion.
65. WAP to compute the factorial of the given number using recursion.
66. WAP to compute the exponential of number w.r.t. another number using recursion.
67. WAP to display the Fibonacci series using recursion.
68. WAP to compute the sum of digits of the given number using recursion.
69. WAP to compute the reverse of the given number using recursion.
70. WAP to get the Python version you are using.
71. WAP to display the current date and time.
72. WAP to accept a filename from the user and print the extension of that.
73. WAP to print the calendar of a given month and year.
74. WAP to calculate number of days between two dates.
75. WAP to print yesterday, today, tomorrow.
76. WAP to multiply two numbers using lambda function.
77. WAP to implement Arithmetic calculator using module.
UNIT IV
78. WAP to implement various String methods (Any 10)
79. WAP to implement various List methods (All)
80. WAP to implement various Tuple methods (All)
81. WAP to implement various Set methods (Any 10)
82. WAP to implement various Dictionary methods (Any 10)
83. WAP to make a list of 5 random numbers
84. WAP to find min, max and average of elements of a list having numeric data
85. WAP to print all even numbers of a list using list comprehension
86. WAP to find sum of all even numbers and odd numbers separately in a list
87. WAP that reverses a list using loop.
88. WAP that prompts user to enter an alphabet and then print all the words that starts
with that alphabet.
UNIT V
89. WAP to copy the contents of one file into another file.
90. WAP to count number of vowels and consonants in a text file.
91. WAP to count number of words, lines and characters in a text file.
92. Python Program to handle divide by zero exception
93. WAP to Implement Sequential search (Linear search) to find an item in the list
94. WAP to Implement Binary search to find an item in the list
95. WAP to sort elements of a list using Selection Sort
96. WAP to sort elements of a list using Merge Sort